Namo Buddha Shakyamuni.
Surely you all know that
our main character in
today's session is Ms. Pham Thi Yen. Have any of you
ever heard of her? Please raise your hand!
Yes, many of you
have heard of Ms. Yen. So, Quang Quan would like to
introduce her briefly. Our Ms. Yen
is someone who can help
us solve and resolve difficulties and
questions in our daily lives. If
we encounter problems in real life that we do
n't know how to solve,
she will help us untangle
them. And besides, has anyone ever heard
of the spiritual world? Does anyone believe in the
spiritual world? Please
raise your hand! Yes, yes!
So, I'm sure you are all
very interested in the topic of spirituality, right?
A world that exists
around us but we cannot
see it. And today,
our Ms. Yen will help us
answer those questions and resolve those difficult problems we encounter
in life.
Explaining it
with logic and science, right? So,
throughout the process of Ms. Yen
sharing and interacting with us, I hope that
you all have your papers ready. If you have any
problems
in life that you haven't been able to
explain, you can write them down and
send them to the program, and Ms. Yen will
help you resolve them. And
this afternoon, Ms. Yen will
come to interact and share with us on
a very practical topic: spirituality
and human life. And now, I would
like to invite Ms. Yen to share a few words
with you.
Dear all,
around us there is a spiritual life,
but it is still very
controversial. There are those who believe
in the spiritual world and those who do not.
Some agree that
what happens around them is
influenced by the spiritual world, while others deny its existence.
So today, I will come to you to
explore what spirituality
is.  Spirituality, first and foremost, resides within
our consciousness. Each of
us recognizes that we
have a mind and a body.
We call our mind the
spiritual consciousness. When it resides in
this body, it can move our hands up and down, our feet up and down, know
hunger and fullness, know everything, know
sadness and joy. So we say, "
Today I am sad, I feel tired."
This means the power of the mind
controls this body. When you are in love,
you feel exhilarated, but in
reality, it's still just your physical body. You
weigh the same amount, eat the same amount of
rice, drink the same amount of
water. But when you
feel love for someone else, you feel your
body is light and cheerful. But
when you are heartbroken, does this body
become heavy? It's
still the same body, but does the mind
have the same strength?
It makes our body
tired, sluggish, and unwilling to eat, but when we
go for a check-up, no disease is found except for the "
disease" of heartbreak.
This heartbreak is related to the mind.
So, do
we see how miraculous our mind is? It can
make the body tired, it can
make the body weak—that's something we ourselves
have already seen as miraculous. It's
very miraculous. For example, if we have
something that hinders us, like
our house
being very dirty every day, even when our parents urge us to
clean, but today our
lover comes over,
we suddenly feel very energetic and clean everything perfectly.
This is the mind
motivating the body; the body doesn't feel
bothered, tired, lazy, or
anything else. So, it turns out that
before, it was the mind that was lazy, but actually, the
body doesn't know laziness. So, is
there the miraculous power of the mind?
That's the miraculous power of
our consciousness. We will verify this right
within our own minds. I will
explain this miraculous power.
Now, when you and your lover
are talking happily,
you see that both your bodies are...  Being
healthy and happy together means two people in love,
meaning they pay close attention to each other. When one person
does something, the other already knows
what's coming next and needs to do it. That means they
understand each other, like how we understand ourselves. It's
like when we cook rice;
we know what to wash the rice, cook the
rice, pick the vegetables, and so on.
But when two people in love are in
harmony, when one person starts
cooking, the other knows
what they'll do next and helps
very quickly. So, their minds are
connected, right? Their minds have a
telepathic connection.
You can think about this a lot. There's
another kind of telepathic connection, and
this is in the realm of intuition. That's
why we often recite "Namo Great
Compassionate and Merciful Avalokiteshvara Bodhisattva."
Here, I'll talk about the
telepathic connection between a mother and her child. Does the mother love her child?
Does she worry about her child?
Because of that love and worry, the
mother has a premonition that something unfortunate might happen to her child today,
and indeed, that
misfortune will come to the child.  I'm serious.
Has anyone heard
stories like that between a mother and child? That's
called intuition, which is a
very flexible aspect of spirituality. It's more like
two people deeply in love can
sense it. For example, if
your loved one has a problem or an
accident today, they'll know if they
truly love each other. That means there's a
very strong intuition within our hearts that can transmit to
the person who cares about us.
But our hearts must be
strongly directed towards them, and our hearts must also be strongly directed towards theirs.
That is, two
hearts strongly aligned, sharing a common
natural direction, transforming into
each other. So, we often do
good deeds or care for others,
and
then, simply reciting "Namo Ksitigarbha Bodhisattva, the Bodhisattva of Compassion and Responsiveness" will create a connection
with the
Bodhisattva's power, leading to this
intuitive response.  This person sees
miraculous things happening to them and can
overcome that moment very
smoothly. In reality, it's a connection
between their own mind and the minds of
Bodhisattvas and the surrounding beings. This is
another form of spiritual connection.
For example, if two people are fighting and
an evil person passes by, and people
like fighting, their minds
tend towards evil. Then, when the
two people fighting encounter
that evil person, the
evil person's mind is also affected and
jumps in – what do you mean by "joining in"? Yes, it's a "joining in" attack.
But it's not
because this person hates one of the
two people. That is, this evil person joins in and
attacks both of
them. So, it's not because
they hate the two people, but because
their evil mind, upon seeing the
evil act, is affected and reacts
in their body. That is, the body is
dependent on the mind. I
explained to you before that the body is
dependent.  Now, when you see
someone fighting on the other side, your mind
reacts to this unwholesome act,
causing your hands and feet to
involuntarily jump in and
fight. You can all
see how powerful the mind's reaction is.
Today, I will discuss the
topic of our physical bodies;
we can clearly see each other's minds—our own mind,
and then we can react to the mind
of others. But what about
our surroundings? Does our mind react to the minds of animals? If
our mind is kind and
loving towards animals, do we see that animals love
us back? There is a
very clear interaction and reaction between minds. Animals are the
same; when an animal is aggressive and an aggressive person approaches, the
animal immediately
becomes even more aggressive. The kind mind
of a human can usually command
animals more easily. You can go home and practice what
you call "listening, thinking, and practicing," meaning listening, reflecting, and if you
find it right, then try it out.
See if you can react to animals;
then you'll know.  Our minds are
sensitive; our minds possess a
very, very great spiritual connection, communicating from one person's mind to another's,
from our own mind to the mind of an
animal. Good minds communicate with
each other, and evil minds
also communicate with each other. Furthermore, our minds
have a miraculous and wondrous power, like that of
enlightened saints. They can see and
know the minds of all beings, and
their minds can perceive all
things and events in this world,
in this realm, without any hindrance whatsoever.
We see
that sometimes our minds are sensitive
to the person next to us, sensing their
emotions when they
speak, whether they are happy or
sad. We see it through
our minds, not through our
thoughts. We see it through our minds; we
sense that they are sad.
That feeling is the mind. Therefore,
our minds are very miraculous, spiritual,
and highly sensitive. If someone
often delves deeply into the mind, that is, specializes in...  The idea
of ​​mastering the mind, subduing the
mind, allows us to see our own mind
and the minds of others. This
is something I am very dedicated
to exploring my own mind and I eagerly seek to come to
Buddhism so that I can see my own mind.
Because when I see my own mind, I can
see the minds of all beings. So today,
I'm coming to you with the topic of
spirituality so that you can examine your own mind,
see the benefits of your mind, and
then see the benefits of your mind
for the beings around you. For example, if
your mind is kind and virtuous, you will
attract the kind and virtuous minds of those
around you. When your words reach them, they will
be receptive and listen to you. That means if they
are being unwholesome, you can advise them to be
virtuous. But if we don't
understand the mind, if we don't cultivate it
to make our minds beautiful, then when we say
kind things, people won't
accept them because our mind lacks the power of words. If
we only use words and
books, they won't listen. So you
see, if you want to speak to someone,
first you must present yourself.
Our hearts must have love, compassion, and
sharing with others. We must have
that heart ready, this love, compassion, and
sharing. People who cultivate such a heart
to make it abundant will be
able to advise others, and they will
listen. But
those whose hearts lack love,
sharing, and forgiveness, when
advised about something necessary,
will do the opposite.
Because they feel uncomfortable because
their hearts lack that capacity, that quality of
mind that has been
cultivated, and therefore lack that capacity.
Now, I would like to ask
you all some questions, and I would like to
answer them as you wish. May I give you a
thumbs-up? Yes, as Ms. Yen
just shared, she truly came
to us with a heart full of
desire to share and interact with
you all, and you all here today
also have a desire to learn, to
listen, and to share with
her, right?  Just now, I
shared with you the concept of
spirituality and its origins.
Now, I hear
some questions from you all, so I would like to ask
you to answer
each one. Yes, I will start with the first question.
One student, whose name I don't know, asked:
How do spirits affect humans? I have
a few questions for you, teacher. Here are my
answers: First question:
Why can't humans see
spirits? I will read each question and
answer them one by one.
We humans cannot see spirits
because each living being has a
different form due to karma.
We are humans, and there are
living beings like bacteria that we
cannot see with the naked eye
because their forms are different. Do
you agree with that?
When scientists and
doctors examine bacteria,
they can see whether they are
active or not, but we
cannot see them with the naked eye.
The capacity of the human eye is limited, so we
cannot see that each living being is
shaped
differently by karma. I'm just giving an example. Can an ant
see a human being?
We humans still have
physical forms, don't we? But the ant
's vision is different. I'm just illustrating
a mythological story. It
might think it's the mountain itself. If it could see the
whole mountain, it would still think it's the
mountain, not that it's a
human being.
Firstly, the visual perception of each
living being is different. Some species use
their sense of smell to find things, some
use their sense of taste, and
we use our visual perception.
Therefore, each living being is
different due to karma. So, when
our minds are clear,
we can see. In Buddhism, this is
called supernatural power. Those with
supernatural power have the ability to see other beings' minds, to know their thoughts. And those with
supernatural powers
can know what their past lives were like.
That means we must have these things.  In
general, in this realm of
spirits and ghosts, they also have proper forms; they do
n't lack form. They have
their own forms, but they can
pass through us, and we pass
through them normally. They don't
sense us unless we have a connection
with them. If we don't have a connection with them, they won't see
us, and if we don't have a
connection with them, we
won't see them either. For example, a
very large ghost like this, but if someone has attained enlightenment,
they
will avoid it. But if
we just walk through it, it won't be
affected. The ghost won't
sense that we've passed through
its body; it won't know.
That's what the realm of spirits and ghosts
is like. If you wanted to explain it,
because there's no way to see it, you ca
n't.
For example, if you want to see bacteria,
you have to go to a doctor and see
a magnifying glass.  We need
tools to see, and
if we see the realm of the hungry ghosts, the tool is our mind.
Let's live with love,
sharing, and harmony. Don't be arrogant, because that
causes obstacles
with the realms of spirits. That's the
attachment to "I," meaning "I see, I hear, I
know," and not learning much. That's why
disciples of Buddha, as well as those who practiced
before and possessed supernatural powers, could let go of
their minds and bodies to practice.
Then, at some point, they would be able to
see other realms. It's
not easy, but it's not
difficult either. In Buddhist teachings,
focusing on cultivating the mind allows one to see that
all beings are composed of the mind.
Evil beings have this form,
good beings have this form. Is
n't the form of beings the
result of the mind? Therefore, if
we want to know beings,
we must know our own mind. That is, knowing
our own mind will allow us to know the minds of
beings. Here, I'm just giving an example.
For instance, if we've experienced
heartbreak, it's exhausting.  It's sad, it's painful,
it's hard to let go, it's hard to escape.
We'll understand how someone who's
heartbroken feels, so when we
advise them, we'll advise them according to the
path of their mind, helping them to escape. As
for those who practice meditation,
they don't need to experience heartbreak to understand it.
They observe their own minds in meditation; they know the
feelings of joy, sadness, love, hate, boredom, and despair that arise.
They observe in detail, so
when they sense the mind of someone next to them,
they know that person's mind is the same,
and they know
how to guide that person's mind.
That's why we can't
see the form of the hungry ghost;
only a few can see it. Either they
have the karmic connection, or they must cultivate their minds. As she
said, one reason we can't see them is that
we don't
perceive them because
our perception is limited to visual perception, and the
physical form of sentient beings is determined
by our consciousness. Therefore, we don't know the
consciousness of all sentient beings
because we don't perceive them.  We don't know our own minds, we
don't know our own minds, so
we don't know the forms of sentient
beings.
To know the forms of sentient beings, we
must know our own minds. We
must find our own minds clearly, delve deep into them, subdue them, and master them. Then
we
will know the forms of sentient beings
in the outside world. If we don't know, we won't know. Thank you, teacher. While I'm at it, I'd like to ask you about animals like wolves or cats. I've heard in ghost stories
or from elders that
they have the ability to see
ghosts and demons. I don't know
how this is explained in Buddhism. Yes, there are many sutras in Buddhist scriptures,
but I'll give you an example.
It's the Sutra of the Blind Ghost.
In a previous life, there was a wealthy man and his
wife.
After seeing the Buddha, they were
very joyful. Because of
this joy, the wife became pregnant with a daughter.
Because of her joyful and joyful heart,
her daughter became very beautiful. However, she
wholeheartedly desired to become a nun. Her wealthy parents could
n't dissuade her, so they built her a
beautiful monastery to practice. While
she was there, her parents invited
other nuns to practice with her.
During her practice, she became arrogant, believing the
monastery belonged to her parents. She became unrestrained and
practiced without
control, thus violating the precepts. Because of this violation, the monks met and
expelled her from the
monastic order.
Ashamed, she didn't return home to her parents but
went elsewhere. Out of anger and resentment, she slandered the monastic order, saying they
were cruel people who expelled her
to seize her property. But in reality, the
property was built for the Three Jewels (Buddha, Dharma, Sangha), and
anyone who becomes a nun is entitled to
that property; it doesn't belong to anyone in particular.
Because of her slander and false accusations, she committed further acts of violence.  The
blind demons endure much
suffering, but are constantly attacked and
torn apart by dogs and other creatures.
Animals are similar; they have a
connection with the demons of the
human realm, then the animal realm, then Hell. The
Buddha taught that beings in Hell rely on the realm of demons, and demons
rely on the realm of animals.
Then both the animal and demon realms rely
on the human realm, and the human realm relies on the heavenly realm. The
heavenly realm relies on Brahma, and so on
until Nirvana. Nirvana then relies on the
gentle and soft hearts of beings, allowing them to
exist in these realms. This is what the
Buddha
taught in the scriptures. Because the hearts of the animal
and demon species are close to
each other in each level, they
see each other very clearly and attack each other
very clearly. As for us humans, only our
hearts are affected by the demons;
our hearts are pure.  If there is little defilement but
much defilement, then we will also tell the
audience that if our own minds are
very defiled, we will attract the
mind of the demon, not to mention the mind of
animals. The mind of an
animal is closer to the mind
of a demon than the mind of a human,
and the mind
of an animal is further apart,
but still
close. That is, if someone's mind is
very low, it will be in harmony with the
demon. Anyone who is too stingy and greedy will also be
in harmony with the demon. So we see,
like a dog. Even
though you are very close and play
together, if one dog takes a bone
from another dog and eats it, it will hold onto it.
I will take one example.
I have witnessed two very close dogs
playing together all day, but when I
give one dog a piece of bread and the other
dog a piece, the first dog doesn't eat it,
but the other dog eats all of
its share.  This dog sits here
staring at the cake without eating it, but when another dog gets
close, it
bares its teeth, and the other dog recoils. That means
it's too stingy. Everyone should consider
sentient beings as the majority, not the minority. Some
sentient beings, after their
lifetime, can escape
reincarnation and become humans, becoming very
close and friendly, even
giving. That means their consciousness can
transform; it's not fixed.
Our consciousness is miraculous, miraculous.
Because it changes, it's not
fixed. When it's happy, it changes; when it's sad, when it loves, it
changes. So our consciousness
changes, that's why it's called
miraculous, not fixed. The
consciousness of animals is the same. When
its consciousness becomes more virtuous, after its lifetime,
it's reborn into a virtuous realm.
So the mind of a
demon is more closely connected to the mind of an animal than to the
mind of a human. But if
we humans lower our minds,
meaning we have too much envy, then
naturally our minds become confused.
So you can't be clear-minded anymore, you know, because of envy.
Anyone who's envious, when
you're envious and angry at someone, you're no
longer clear-minded or
wise. Your wisdom
diminishes, and when it diminishes, it attracts
evil spirits. Then people become
stingy, only wanting to receive and not giving, hoarding
their own possessions and only giving
to others. That kind of mindset
also descends, becoming like the
mindset of evil spirits.
We suffer, and those people are
easily affected by evil spirits,
becoming confused and disoriented. So,
in your question, MC, I'll
share it with you like
[music].
Oh
[music]